Visualize your GitHub dependency security alerts (#2288)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/visualize-your-github-dependabot-alerts.md

---
displayed_sidebar: null
description: Learn how to monitor GitHub Dependabot alerts and gain security insights using dashboards.
---

# Visualize your GitHub dependency security alerts

This guide demonstrates how to set up a monitoring solution to gain visibility into security alerts from GitHub’s Dependabot. You’ll learn how to visualize vulnerability alerts across your repositories and track them over time using Port's **GitHub** integration.

<img src="/img/guides/gitHubDependabotInsightDashboard.png" border="1px" width="100%" />

## Common use cases

- Monitor open and resolved Dependabot alerts across repositories.
- Identify repositories with a high number of unresolved alerts.
- Understand the distribution of alerts by severity and package ecosystem (e.g., npm, Maven, PyPI).

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes the following:
- You have a Port account and have completed the [onboarding process](https://docs.port.io/getting-started/overview).

> - [GitHub app](/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/git/github/) installed in your Port account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Port's [GitHub app](/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/git/github/) is installed in your account.
```

                manifestPath: .dependency.manifest_path
                scope: .dependency.scope
                ghsaID: .security_advisory.ghsa_id
                cveID: .security_advisory.cve_id
                cvssScore: .security_advisory.cvss.score
                url: .html_url
                references: "[.security_advisory.references[].url]"
                alertCreatedAt: .created_at
                alertUpdatedAt: .updated_at
            relations:
                repository: .repo.name
    ```
    </details>
    
4. Click `Save & Resync` to apply the mapping.

## Visualize metrics

Once the GitHub data is synced, we can create a dedicated dashboard in Port to monitor and analyze dependency vulnerability alerts using customizable widgets.

### Create a dashboard

1. Navigate to your [software catalog](https://app.getport.io/organization/catalog).
2. Click on the **`+ New`** button in the left sidebar.
3. Select **New dashboard**.
4. Name the dashboard **Dependabot Alert Insights**.
5. Select the `Vulnerability` icon.
6. Click `Create`.

We now have a blank dashboard where we can start adding widgets to visualize insights from the Dependabot alerts.

### Add widgets

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the new dashboard, create the following widgets:

```
